Now we've got this little simple application put together let's start to discuss how we're going to
use Jamestown to actually test this thing.
Now to begin I first want to point out that testing this application we just put together would be really
difficult if we tried to use that same Moka test framework running inside the browser we use use just
a little bit ago.
Let me show you why that would be so challenging.
All right.
A quick diagram here.
So this is all about when we were running MOCA inside the browser just a moment ago.
So when we did that with the create autocomplete function we had one function that we could run as many
times as you wanted.
So remember create autocomplete.
We called it one time for each different test we had.
So that meant that for each test that we wrote we could create a completely new and fresh autocomplete
widget.
The nice thing about testing that create autocomplete function was that we really had a direct handle
onto the function that we wanted to test so we could easily call it function as many times as we wish
and get a fresh autocomplete every single time.
Now what do you think about how you could do some tests like that with MOCA inside the browser around
this email validation project that we just put together.
So like this file right here the index not just j ust file that we just authored so testing this thing
out with mock it in the browser would be really really challenging.
The reason for that is that we have some form logic inside there that instantly gets executed every
single time the index not just file is loaded.
So that means that when we load up the index not just file that is pretty much it's the code inside
there is going to find one form that is on the screen if there's not a form we're going to instantly
get an error.
And if we ever want to say test this thing a second time it's not going to be very easy because all
the code inside there runs just once and that's it.
So using this Moka inside the browser approach would be really challenging to test the e-mail validation
project that we just put together.
So how is ust on going to solve this.
Well let's take another look at the J.S. Dom documentation.
So I'm again at NPM J ask.com and on this page I can do a quick search so I can hit command F and I'll
search for from file so this right here is a very special little function that's going to be the total
linchpin of how we're going to test our application the front file function include with j ust Dom is
going to be called with a reference or the name of some H Cemal document that we want to load up when
we call from file.
J ust Om is going to look for a file on our harddrive that has that name.
It's then going to read the contents of that HMO file and tried to load it up into this kind of virtual
browser environment once j ust arm loads up that each HTML document it is also going to load up any
associated JavaScript files as well.
So essentially when we call J.S. Tom here's what really happens we're gonna call from File we're going
to pass in a reference to the index not each email file that we just authored for our little project
and of course attach that index not H.M. file is going to be index dot J.S. file that's where all the
jobs group code is that we want to actually test.
So ust on is going to take in these two files and it's going to assemble a virtual representation of
our application that's going to give us back an object that we can use to kind of poke and prod at to
make sure that our application is working the way we expect.
So that's gonna be how we use J.S. Dom every single time that we want to write a test.
So let's say that we want to write like five tests out or five it statements inside of one file.
We're going to call just on dot from file for each one.
So for every test we're gonna load up a fresh version of our entire application that's going to give
us back this object that represents the entire Dom and we can call different methods on that thing to
manipulate all the different elements inside there.
So for example we could try to simulate a typing event on that text input.
We can try to write some test code that will simulate a button click on that thing right there and we
can write some code that will assert that we see the appropriate message on the screen and this is all
possible thanks to J ust om and the ability to load up some arbitrary e-mail file and its associated
javascript code inside of a node environment.
So that's it.
That's all idea.
Now I've got to tell you right now the code that we're going to write to actually implement all this
stuff is just a couple of lines like it's really not that many but unfortunately it will be just a little
bit complicated.
I do have to say that.
So let's take a pause right here.
When we come back the next video we're going to start to make use of this J.S. Dom dot from file function
to load up some e-mail document in all of the associated javascript.